README.md, before:

# EnumFromFile

[![Build Status](https://semaphoreci.com/api/v1/andrewr224/enum-from-file/branches/master/badge.svg)](https://semaphoreci.com/andrewr224/enum-from-file)

If you've ever found yourself in a situation where you feel like you should use enum, but it has 50 positions so you don't know where to put it, the answer is here!

Just store your enums in a .yml file!

This makes little sense when you have a small enum with just a couple of options, but the more options you have, the easier it is to see the benefits of using it.

## Usage
1. Create a folder `/config/enums` to store your enum files in .yml format.
2. Make sure your enum column has a type `string`.

Et voila!

Given a file `/config/enums/eye_colors.yml` with the following content:
```
blue:   blue
copper: copper
yellow: yellow
gold:   gold
orange: orange
green:  green
red:    red
```

You can add eye_color enum to a Cat model with the following line:
```ruby
enum :eye_color, from_file: :eye_colors
```

You can continue using regular syntax for regular cases:
```ruby
enum status: { active: active, archived: archived }
```

All the options will be passed to native enum implementation as expected.

## Installation
Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'enum_from_file'
```

And then execute:
```bash
$ bundle
```

Or install it yourself as:
```bash
$ gem install enum_from_file
```

## Contributing
Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on project's [page](https://github.com/andrewr224/enum-from-file) at GitHub

## License
The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Allow values to be converted into a Hash on the fly :statue_of_liberty:

README.md, after:

# EnumFromFile

[![Build Status](https://semaphoreci.com/api/v1/andrewr224/enum-from-file/branches/master/badge.svg)](https://semaphoreci.com/andrewr224/enum-from-file)

If you've ever found yourself in a situation where you feel like you should use enum, but it has 50 positions so you don't know where to put it, the answer is here!

Just store your enums in a .yml file!

This makes little sense when you have a small enum with just a couple of options, but the more options you have, the easier it is to see the benefits of using it.

## Usage
1. Create a folder `/config/enums` to store your enum files in .yml format.
2. Make sure your enum column has a type `string`.

Et voila!

Given a file `/config/enums/eye_colors.yml` you can add eye_color enum to a Cat model with the following line:
```ruby
enum :eye_color, from_file: :eye_colors
```

You can continue using regular syntax for regular cases:
```ruby
enum status: { active: active, archived: archived }
```

All the options will be passed to native enum implementation as expected.

You can structure your .yml file either as a hash
```
blue:   blue
copper: copper
yellow: yellow
```
Or as a list
```
gold
orange
green
red
```
The list will be converted automatically, so both structures yield the same result.

## Installation
Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'enum_from_file'
```

And then execute:
```bash
$ bundle
```

Or install it yourself as:
```bash
$ gem install enum_from_file
```

## Contributing
Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on project's [page](https://github.com/andrewr224/enum-from-file) at GitHub

## License
The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
